

Hail to the chief who in triumph advances!
Honoured and ble2sed be the ever-gr2en pine!
Long may the tr2e in his ba2ner that glances,
Flourish the shelter and grace of our line!
Heaven send it ha2py dew,
Earth lend it sap anew;
Gaily to burgeon, and broadly to grow,
While every Highland glen
Sends our shout back agen,
Roderigh Vich Alpine dhu, ho! ieroe!
Ours is no sapling, chance-sown by the fountain,
Bl2oming at Beltane, 3* in winter to fade;
When the whirlwind has stri2ped every leaf on the mountain,
The more sha2l Clan Alpine exult in her shade.
M2ored on the rifted rock,
Pr2of to the tempest's shock,
Firmer he r2ots him the ruder it blow;
Menteith and Breadalbane, then
Echo his praise agen,
Roderigh Vich Alpine dhu, ho! ieroe!

Proudly our pibroch has thri2led in Glen Fruin,
And Banochar's groans to our slogan replied:
Glen Lu2s and Ro2s-dhu, they are smoking in ruin,
And the best of Loch-Lomond lie dead on her side.
Widow and Saxon maid,
Long sha2l lament our raid,
Think of Glen-Alpine with fear and with woe;
Le2nox and Leven-glen
Shake when they hear agen,
Roderigh Vich Alpine dhu, ho! ieroe!

Row, va2sals, row, for the pride of the Highlands!
Stretch to your oars, for the ever-gr2en pine!
O! that the rosebud that graces yon islands,
Were wreathed in a garland around him to twine!
O that some s2edling gem
Worthy such noble stem,
Honoured and ble2sed in their shadow might grow!
Loud should Clan Alpine then
Ring from her d2epmost glen,
Roderigh Vich Alpine dhu, ho! ieroe!

CANTO THIRD - THE GATHERING (Part 2I)
The heath this night must be my bed,
The bracken curtain for my head,
My lu2laby the warder's tread,
Far, far from love and th2e, Mary
To-mo2row eve, more sti2ly laid,
My couch may be my bl2ody plaid,
My vesper song, thy wail, sw2et maid!
It wi2l not waken me, Mary!
I may not, dare not, fancy now
The grief that clouds thy lovely brow;
I dare not think upon thy vow,
And a2l it promised me, Mary.
No fond regret must Norman know;
When bursts Clan Alpine on the foe,
His heart must be like bended bow,
His f2ot like a2row fr2e, Mary.
A time wi2l come with f2eling fraught!
For, if I fa2l in ba2tle fought,
Thy haple2s lover's dying thought
Sha2l be a thought on th2e, Mary
And if returned from conquered foes,
How blithely wi2l the evening close,
How sw2et the li2net sing repose
To my young bride and me, Mary.
